Spectrum Student Startup Competition - Application

Contact Information
Applicant Name: Chris / Eric / Spencer
Applicant E-mail: @mcmaster.ca
Startup Name: SimplyCoded Solutions
Team Member Names: …

Summary of Startup


The Team
Eric Le Fort - Eric has a very strong background in Java programming. This is essential to the startup as Android applications run on Java. Due to his experience, he will be the head backend developer.

Chris McDonald - Chris is strong in the area of Marketing and Business, while studying Software Engineering. Chris also has experience with XML programming which is the user interface language for Android applications.

Spencer Deevy - Spencer will be responsible for all design for what the user will interact with. …


The Problem
Being University students, going to clubs and partying is a necessary activity for making friends and exploring what Hamilton has to offer. However, it does come with its challenges. These include but are not limited to safety, planning and time. This can jeopardize the quality of the evening and more importantly other aspects of the user’s life. With poor planning, comes poor decisions. 

The Solution

The solution would be to provide a user-friendly application, JustAddFriends, that provides various essential services and tools to the user’s fingertips. These tools include a list of local taxi numbers, locations of local bars/clubs, a list of friends you are out with and easy communication within your group. There will also be various other sections such as drink recipes and periodic challenges/events to enhance your experience improve your night.

The solution would be to provide the user-friendly application, JustAddFriends. This will bring many essentials services and tools to the user’s fingertips. To enhance the user’s experience, our application will include drink recipes, locations of bars and clubs and discounts to those clubs. Many of the people who go to clubs and bars are unaware of what to order and so,  heavily rely on bartenders recommendations. With the application, the user will be able to have a wide selection of drinks with a wide variety of flavours that tailor to the user’s liking. Hamilton, for example, is a very large city and offers many experiences with regards to night-life. With the mobile app, it will be very easy to find all of what Hamilton has to offer. With this, we will be approaching these establishments offering advertisements in exchange for deals for all user’s of the application. The application will also include taxi numbers, photo reminders and easier contact within the group they are with. The purpose of the taxi numbers is so the user will know exactly where they are going and how to get there. The photo reminders will prompt users to take a photo with the people in their group which they can post to social media. The main purpose of this is so the group stays together for the duration of the night. By documenting who you left the house with, it will be very easy to keep track of who you are leaving with, making sure that when the night is done, everyone is accounted for.


Value Proposition

Our solution will offer a unique experience which guides the user throughout their night. At the beginning, the user will be able to look at a wide variety of drink recipes, build their group by adding people to their “friends” list and contact local cab companies. 

Customer Segments

Revenue and Pricing

Channels

Demand Creation

Competition and Alternatives

Milestones
